Openness is the magnitude of spatial enclosure. At one pole (7:highest), there is a clear horizon and no occluders. 
At the other pole (1: lowest), the scene is enclosed and bound by surfaces, textures and objects. 
Openness decreases when the number of boundary elements increases.

Openness is how open or closed the scene looks. 
At one end, you can see a clear horizon with nothing blocking the view (7:highest). 
At the other end, the view is filled with things like walls, surfaces, objects, and textures (1: lowest).



Expansion is the degree of linear perspective in the scene. 
It ranges from a flat view on a surface (1: lowest) to an environment
with strong parallel lines converging on a vanishing point (7: highest).

Expansion is how much the scene seems to stretch out in front of you. 
It can look flat (1: lowest), 
or it can have parallel lines that seem to meet at a point at far distance (7:highest).



Depth corresponds to the scale or size of the space, 
ranging from a close-up view on single surfaces or objects (1: lowest) to
panoramic scenes (7: highest)

Depth is the scale or size of the space, 
ranging from a close-up view on single surfaces or objects (1: lowest) to
a wide view of panoramic scenes (7: highest)


Temperature refers to the physical temperature of the environment if the observer was immersed in the scene. 
In other words, it refers to howor cold (1: lowest) or hot (7: highest) an observer would feel inside the depicted place

Temperature is how hot (7: highest) or cold (1: lowest) you'd feel if you were immersed in the scene.



Transience refers to the rate at which the environment depicted in the image is changing. 
This can be related to physical movement, such as running water or rustling leaves. 
It can also refer to the transience of the scene itself (fog is lifting, sun is setting).
At one extreme, the scene identity is changing only in geological time (1: lowest), and at the other, the identity depends
on the photograph being taken at that exact moment (7: highest)

Transience is how quickly things in the scene are changing. Changing could mean something in the image is moving like running water, 
or the overall scene changing, like when it depicts a sunset.
At one extreme, the scene could seem stationary (1: lowest), and at the other extreme, the scene could depend
on the photograph being taken at that exact moment (7: highest)



Concealment refers to how efficiently and completely a human would be able to hide in a space, or the probability of hidden elements
in the scene that would be difficult to search for. It ranges from complete exposure in a sparse
space (1: lowest) to complete concealment due to dense and variable surfaces and objects (7: highest)

Concealment is how easy it would be for people to hide in the scene OR how many elements are hidden in the photo. 
It can range from being out in the open with nowhere to hide (1: lowest), 
to a place with lots of hiding spots because of many objects and surfaces (7: highest).



Navigability corresponds to the ease of self-propelled movement through the scene. 
This ranges from complete impenetrability of the space due to clutter, obstacles or treacherous conditions (1: lowest)
to free movement in any direction without obstacle (7: highest)

Navigability is how easy it would be to move around in the scene. 
It can range from a place filled with obstacles making it hard to move OR an environment too dangerous to move (1: lowest), 
to an open space where you can go in any direction easily (7: highest).





Clutter is how filled or crowded the scene is. 
At one end, it's simple with few items or objects (1: lowest), 
At the other end, it's packed with many things, making it look busy or messy (7: highest).

